okay here we are again in my nerd cave
bring you a video about the panel I
ended up using in here which was my
second most common question that I got
asked which is Jay why did you use the
ultra wide and not the BFG be like you
said you were going to use so today
we're going to talk about that we'll
talk about some of the specs on this my
personal opinion on it and then we will
view that Coursera is proud to present
their new Hydra X line of custom water
cooling products the new XG 5 series
radiators offer the perfect balance of
finden city and air flow to keep your
loop cool and quiet
the XG 7 water blocks feature full
coverage cooling through GPU while also
maintaining an aesthetically pleasing
design while the XC 7 and XC 9 cpu
blocks keep all your modern cpus nice
and cool to see the complete lineup of
high directs cooling products from
Corsair click the link in the
description below ok so about seven
months ago was something like that
I said I was going to be using the BFG
de as a centerpiece in my new gaming
room and clearly I didn't do that
because since then the advancement and
the updates coming to the LG c9 have
made it the best of both worlds as a
gaming panel for a game room or even HT
PC and also has all the color accuracy
of OLED + webOS and all that sort of
stuff so I'll probably do a separate
piece about the c9 although LG did do a
campaign about that I wasn't a part of
it I bought my c9 so I think it'll be an
interesting perspective to see as
somebody who spent retail on that how I
feel about it but LG did send me this
panel behind me which is the 38 inch
ultra wide + wqhd plus we'll talk about
that means in a second GL 950 G - B so
it is AG sync panel but it's 38 inches
so I felt like it really fit the gap
between having a giant panel that I
can't sit in front of because I'm
farsighted and have to sit so far back
this room would never make sense if I
did that moving to something now that's
bigger the 34 inch standard 21 by 9 all
too wide which I've been using now for
several years and gives me more screen
real estate and a few extra pixels so
let's go and start with some of the
specs the reason why they call it a wqhd
plus is because there's a 34 40 by 1600
so there's an extra one
sixty pixels tall I said being 1440 tall
it's 1,600 very similar to a sixteen by
ten panel but only in an ultra wide
version so one of the things I didn't
like about 21 by nine panels although I
got used to it was how it was really
wide and really narrow the height was
really short on it it felt like I was
looking through the periscope of a net a
1m m1 Abrams tank but I eventually got
used to it so now having it be wider and
more screen real estate just well the
screen real estates the same as his
wider right but being a littler did give
me a little extra real estate and made
the panel feel less like I was looking
through a periscope but it's bigger
because I wanted a bigger panel I always
used to use multi panel setups in the
past I've used a single 21 by 9 now for
a long time I just wanted a little more
space without taking up the room to put
another panel on the desk so this the
size of this panel was perfect for that
now in terms of specs they are calling
it a 21 by 9 even though it's got that
1600 vertical height thirty eight forty
by sixteen hundred nano IPS display so
if you're not too sure about what our
new cell is and you can check out our
original video we did several years ago
about what nano cell is but it basically
it's an extra membrane layer between the
pixel gate and the lighting source which
is giving you even more color accuracy
but it is an IPS panel as well so you
can expect the color accuracy from that
which happens to be DCI - p3 98% more
than 1 millisecond response time I don't
have all the proper scopes and stuff to
truly measure the 1 millisecond response
time I can tell you right now in terms
of using it though it doesn't feel like
it has any sort of ghosting high
response time panels or stuff that's you
know higher than let's say 10
milliseconds definitely has a bit of a
trailing right you move the mouse you'll
see kind of a like a comment trail
behind there that's not something that
I've been experiencing with this panel
when you don't deal with the
overclocking I'll talk about that in a
sec because when it comes to
overclocking it is a 144 Hertz panel
overclockable are over drivable to 175
Hertz - vase a display 100 by 100 and
HDR 400 with sphere lighting 2.0 Nvidia
g-sync pretty straightforward when
you're running it at the standard 144 or
less you actually get 444 color space
when you overclock it to 175 Hertz that
drops down to 4 to 2 so what you are
having to sacrifice when you go
from 144 Hertz to a faster overdrive as
you lose color accuracy which in my
opinion kind of takes away the whole
point of having an IPS especially an NSL
IPS panel so at the price point that
this panel is and we'll talk about that
at the end it kind of is not a good
trade-off in my opinion I'm actually
running this at 120 Hertz I didn't we
did that video about whether or not we
can tell the difference between 120 and
144 I find 120 to be about the sweet
spot if I leave vertical sync or G sync
or any of that stuff on and then we have
it sort of lock it at that refresh rate
takes a little bit of a workload off of
the GPUs plus I don't notice a
difference anyway so I personally leave
it there I did play around with 175
Hertz though and I can tell you what
starts to happen with that pixel
overdrive is you start to get really bad
chromatic aberration as well as kind of
a pink haloing around the pixels also
too the faster that you run it because
of that color space like I said text
also starts to look pretty bad I don't
see the reason to go to 175 Hertz I know
some people have gone as high as 200
Hertz now on the ultra wides
I don't think pro gamers that would want
200 to 240 4 or higher or playing on
ultra wide anyway so it's kind of a
weird trade-off that they made there
it's I guess cool that you can do it but
the what you sacrifice in terms of
getting next to refresh rate totally not
worth it maybe it is hue but it's not to
me so it is HDR 400 which means that
you're gonna get some of the extra stops
of dynamic range which is gonna bring
you more details in the in the low
lights and more details in the
highlights I don't tend to game with HDR
on very often but it's nice that it has
it for if you're watching movies or
Netflix and stuff on your screen but you
know it's one of those things where you
have to have it on or off at all times
so I basically just leave it off
personally but again at the price point
having HDR is at least worth it and I'll
talk a little bit more about the HDR in
a second when I get to the pros and cons
section there's one other feature in
this panel called their sphere lighting
2.0 so it does have a ring light on the
back of the panel which is what's
actually illuminating the wall behind me
not just the desk it does have the basic
colors it has like white red I think
orange cyan those side types of colors
which I do have is set to match my death
right now it does have a disco RGB mode
which is rather bright in fact the the
LED is extremely bright fortunately it's
got a scroll wheel on the bottom so you
can quickly turn it down or turn it up
in terms of brightness but it also has a
sort of an ambient mode where we'll see
what's happening on the screen and it
will project those colors on the back
wall making your panel a bit more
immersive it kind of brings your
lighting - I know real-life if you will
it's been kind of the thing people have
done lately with their home
entertainment centers is just using kind
of ambient light i know it philips hue
makes one so it does that automatically
if you want it to so if you're gaming on
such it brings a little bit extra level
of immersion to it now when you turn the
panel off by default the light will stay
lit unless you go into the menu settings
and have it turn off when the panel goes
to sleep one thing I've noticed with
this panel though and again lots of
settings you can go into the menu and
play with it sometimes even if you're
using the panel it will automatically
want to shut itself off after so many
hours even if you're using you know
playing the game or using the computer
it's on then you'll have to go in there
and kind of like push a button and say
don't turn off which is not that big of
a deal but I tend to have to turn it I'd
leave that function on because I walk
away from the computer all the time and
I don't want to burn enough power so
will automatically turn itself off and
you can just turn it back on now let's
talk about some of the build here for a
second it's a thick boy just like me it
is about an inch thick when you measure
it at the edge now curved panel is a
little bit different although the curve
is very subtle on this panel fortunately
the first curved panels that came out
man they were trying to make those
wraparound screens so that you know like
like you go into those 3d theaters or
whatever and it's got the screen all
around fortunately we've got away from
that where all we've done now with the
curve on something this big is just make
it subtle so that it doesn't have any
sort of color shift when it looks at the
panel although this panel wouldn't
suffer from color shift from an off
viewing access anyways because it's got
a hundred and seventy eight degrees of
viewable range that's because it's IPS
at the top there's a vent where lighting
does like shine through but it's also
red in there fortunately you can't see
it
I think LG's feels just obligated to put
red in anything they call their gaming
stuff even the base has red in it but
it's on the back so you can't really see
it I think that's their way of saying
red dye color for gaming we're gonna put
it in there whether you like it or not
even if you can't see it but whatever I
digress I obviously have it mounted to
an arm
this is a cheap Amazon arm from a
company called mount it so original
right but it holds the weight of the
panel just fine as you can see it
articulates it rotates I'm happy with it
and I think it cost me like 50 bucks or
something like that with being a vase of
100 100 you have lots of options when it
comes to mounting on the back of the
panel you have your input and output
from LG Display port it's got HDMI it's
got 2 USB 3.0 s with a hub connection on
there so you've got to use a standard
USB like large USB connection to a PC
which I'm using a 10 foot cable on so I
plugged my webcam and stuff into the
back of the monitor when I'm using it I
unplug it and stow it when I'm not so
that's pretty convenient without having
extra cables there I've got the power
brick and everything running through the
arm so as you can see it's floating
without any cables hanging down which is
pretty awesome on the back with inside
that ring light is event as well there
is a fan inside of this panel helping
keep it cool
I've seen some complaints of people
saying the fan made a squealing noise
noise over time so far I've never even
heard the fan I didn't even know had a
fan until I started looking into that
that comment it definitely seems like a
very well thought out panel let's go and
talk about some of the things I'm not a
huge fan of when it comes to the HDR HDR
400 is pretty much the weakest HDR that
you can get I mean HDR 1000 is kind of
like the standard when it comes to TVs
and such the actual brightness of this
panel is 450 CD typical 360 CD minimum
so it's not a super bright panel which
is fine for me like I said I leave HDR
off in most instances because there's
two problems here and this is more
personal and subjective but with HDR 400
being the weakest of the HDR standard
that means the details and the lows and
the details in the highs which would
normally clip or be well at a range and
turn to white or turn to black they're
there they're weak as it is the details
just aren't there it puts while they are
there but there's still hard to see it
puts a little bit of an extra strain on
the GPU to have HDR enabled so I tend to
not leave it on the flip side the panels
at our HDR 1000 watch I've taken a look
at behalf Gd being one of them
it's too bright just completely blast
your face with life
that's why I tend to just leave it off
and leave everything in standard color
or standard s SD SD are there we go
standard depth dynamic range geez I'm
apparently I'm bad at panels right now
right contrast ratio though it has a 700
to 1 minimum 1000 to 1 minimum now alive
you might look at that and go oh my god
that is nothing one of these people
advertised like a million to one this is
a very realistic number when you have
ambient light going in you're measuring
contrast ratio on something that emits
light that's not an OLED obviously the
fact that you have something that's
backlit and trying to make a black is
not going to go perfect black until we
see all Ed's in monitors you're not
going to see an infinite contrast ratio
like you would pretty much see with an
OLED so a lot of people freaked out
these numbers because what you tend to
see and a lot of play a marketing
material and inspect sheets on other
panels are flat-out lies so seeing 700
to 1 minimum thousand to one typical
seems very very realistic to me in terms
of weight without a stand at sixteen
point eight pounds so if you're gonna be
looking for a monitor arm or something
to hold it up like I said the one I'm
using obviously works just fine I don't
even have it loosened and you loosen the
screw to make it stiffer or hold more
weight but at the end of the day it does
what I want it to do it's pricey though
it's $1,700 excuse me seventeen hundred
and ninety-nine dollars you can buy the
55 inch LG c9 TV for $400 less than this
panel costs so in conclusion the 38 inch
is a very expensive very expensive niche
market obviously I don't think this lack
of people buying it or they obviously
feel there's a market for it or they
wouldn't make it I think most people
would take the 1,800 bucks and upgrade
their system or build a heck of a system
I think if you already have a 34 inch
ultra wide of any sort or any sort of
mid to high range panel you wouldn't
make sense to go to this panel I feel
like if somebody had taken my 34 inch
they had hooked up prior because before
this came in at the 34 inch the GK 34
950 F hooked up
prior to this I feel like if Phil were
to like switching on me at night and I
than here and sat down and played at the
computer I'm not sure I would have
necessarily noticed right away with the
exception of the backlighting being on
because the other one doesn't have
backlight I don't think I would have
necessarily noticed right away much of a
difference so it really depends on what
your current circumstances are clearly
your financial circumstances are gonna
play into whether or not this panel is
worth it to you whether or not you can
look past the fact that the advertised
overdrive is kind of worthless the HDR
400 is really weak when it comes to HDR
performance if you just want a the
biggest ultra wide you can currently buy
this is it and I think we'll see the
price coming down quite a bit over time
it's just gonna depend on how fast the
other brands can start getting into the
38-inch market but considering the fact
that LG is kind of like the panel OEM
for so many brands I wouldn't be
surprised if LG is kind of hanging onto
it for themselves right now but again
things are just really kind of upside
down in the world and who knows what the
snare is gonna be in the future when it
comes to these panels so if you're using
this panel and you actually have it put
your comments down below on how you feel
about it how do you feel about this
panel at its price point in its feature
sets and if you guys think there's a
different panel that's worth looking at
that's cheaper then go ahead and sound
off in the comments below my official
recommendation would be the 30 the the
34 GK 950 F being the free sync
validated g-sync or J sync validated
free sync panel has a better feature set
at a much cheaper price if you don't
care about the extra 160 mm pixels of
height and the extra 4 inches of
diagonal viewable screen space so there
you go guys that's why I ended up using
this I couldn't sit at the BFG D and it
wouldn't have worked in this space for
as well as I wanted to it makes more
sense to build a set around it back at
the studio where I have a warehouse to
fit that giant thing of a panel alright
guys thanks for watching hope you're
enjoying this kind of a throwback feel
as I'm working from the new nerd cave
you'll see some more videos from here
because we are social distancing as best
that we can I want to keep Phil safe I
want to keep ourselves safe and so yeah
I'm gonna go ed and take this footage
and upload it to our server where he's
going to grab it and
edit it that's how this works I really
miss him making fun of me